project: Translate README.md to README.en.md (#3)
laymonage/django-template-heroku: README.en.md

<p align="left">

>    <img src="/main/static/img/django-logo-negative.svg" width="250" alt="Django Logo">

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary, we're not affiliated with Django directly.

</p>

## django-template-heroku

[![Test and Deploy][actions-badge]][commits-gh]
[![pipeline status][pipeline-badge]][commits-gl]
[![coverage report][coverage-badge]][commits-gl]

This repository contains a template for creating Django-ready projects

> deployed to Heroku via GitHub Actions or GitLab CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains a template for creating a Django project
ready to be deployed to Heroku via GitHub Actions or GitLab CI.
```

## Table of contents

- [Table of contents](#daftar-isi)

> - [Instructions for use](#instruksi-penggunaan)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Usage instructions](#usage-instructions)
```

- [Advanced](#lanjutan)

> - [Tips for development](#tips-pengembangan)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Development tips](#development-tips)
```

- [What kind of magic is this?](#sihir-macam-apa-ini)

> - [Contribute](#berkontribusi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Contributing](#contributing)
```

> - [License](#lisensi)

Reviewer: Don't forget to update the anchors as well.

## Instructions for use

1. Create a directory for the project you want to create (example: 'project_name'), then
   open a Command Prompt (cmd) or Terminal in that directory.

> 2. Create a Python *virtual environment* in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Python virtual environment in it.
```

   ```shell
   python -m venv venv
   ```

   > Notes: customize it with the 'python' executable on your computer,
   > because sometimes (example: on Ubuntu or macOS) Python 3 only can

>    > executed by `python3`, not `python`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > Note: customize it with the `python` executable on your computer,
   > because sometimes (example: on Ubuntu or macOS) Python 3 can only be
   > executed by `python3`, not `python`.
```

3. Enable the *virtual environment* that has been created earlier.

>    on Windows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Activate the virtual environment that was just created.
   On Windows:
```

   ```shell
   venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

>    on Linux/macOS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On Linux/macOS:
```

   ```shell
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

>    If success, must be shown `(venv)` on your *prompt* cmd/terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If successful, there should be `(venv)` in your cmd/terminal prompt.
```

> 4. Install Django on the *virtual environment*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Install Django in the virtual environment.
```

   ```shell
   python -m pip install Django
   ```

> 5. Create new Django project with this template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create a new Django project with this template.
```

   ```shell
   django-admin startproject --template="https://codeload.github.com/laymonage/django-template-heroku/zip/template" --extension="py,yml,md" --name="Procfile" project_name .
   ```

   > Notes: rename `project_name` with the name that you want.
   > Noticed that there is a period ('.') at the end of the command.
   > If there's an *error* related downloading of this template from GitHub, please
   > visit link manually and navigate the '--template' argument

>    > to the location of your `.zip` file that you have been downloaded earlier on your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > Note: rename `project_name` with the desired project name.
   > Notice that there is a period ('.') at the end of the command.
   > If there's an *error* when downloading this template from GitHub, please
   > visit the link manually and point the '--template' argument
   > to the location of your `.zip` file that you downloaded to your computer.
```

6. Sign in to [Heroku Dashboard][heroku-dashboard] and create new Heroku application.
   This name of application **must not same** with the name of your Django project. Then,
   open up the **Settings** form the application. In the **Config section
   Vars**, click the Reveal Config Vars button. Add named variables
   'HEROKU_APP_NAME' that is worth the name of your Heroku app**without
   '.herokuapp.com'**. Then, also add a variable named 'SECRET_KEY'
   with a value in the form of a key generated by the site

>    [Djecrety][djecrety].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Sign in to [Heroku Dashboard][heroku-dashboard] and create a new Heroku application.
   The application name **does not have to be the same** as the name of your Django
   project. Then, open up the **Settings** of the application. In the **Config Vars** section,
   click the **Reveal Config Vars** button. Add a variable named `HEROKU_APP_NAME` with
   the name of your Heroku app **without `.herokuapp.com`** as its value. Then, add another
   variable named 'SECRET_KEY' using a value generated by the [Djecrety][djecrety] site.
```

7. Create a new *project*/repository in GitLab/GitHub (select one).
   **Do not** select the option to initialize the repository with 'README.md',

>    license, or '.gitignore'. Just leave it blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Create a new project/repository on GitLab/GitHub (choose one).
   **Do not** select the options to initialize the repository with 'README.md',
   license, or '.gitignore'. Just leave them blank.
```

8. If you're using GitLab, go to the Settings menu in the sidebar
   Left. In the Variables section, add a variable named
   'HEROKU_API_KEY' that is the API value of your Heroku account. Then, add
   also a variable named 'HEROKU_APP_NAME' which is worth the name of the Heroku app
   You're without '.herokuapp.com'**.

   If you're using GitHub, do the same through the **Settings> menu

>    Secrets**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. If you use GitLab, go to the **Settings** menu in the left sidebar.
   In the Variables section, add a variable named `HEROKU_API_KEY` with the API key
   of your Heroku account as its value. Then, add another variable named `HEROKU_APP_NAME`
   with your Heroku app name **without `.herokuapp.com`** as its value.

   If you're using GitHub, do the same through the **Settings > Secrets** menu.
```

   > Note: Your Heroku account's API *key* can be viewed through

>    > [**Account settings**][account-settings].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > Note: Your Heroku account's API key can be viewed on
   > [**Account settings**][account-settings].
```

9. **If using GitHub**, move the `tnd.yml` file to the
   `.github/workflows` directory within the following ways.

>    on Windows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. **If you use GitHub**, move the `tnd.yml` file to the
   `.github/workflows` directory with the following commands.

   On Windows:
```

   ```shell
   mkdir ".github\workflows"
   move tnd.yml ".github\workflows\"
   ```

>    on Linux/macOS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On Linux/macOS:
```

   ```shell
   mkdir -p .github/workflows
   mv tnd.yml .github/workflows/
   ```

   If you only use GitLab, you can delete the 'tnd.yml' file.
   If you only use GitHub, you can delete the '.gitlab-ci.yml' file.

10. Make your project directory into a Git repository and create first one

>     *commit*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Turn your project directory into a Git repository and create an initial commit.
```

    ```shell
    git init
    git add .
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    ```

11. Add a new remote named 'origin' that points to the repository

>     you create it in GitLab/GitHub, then push it to that repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Add a new remote named 'origin' that points to the repository
    you created on GitLab/GitHub, then push to that repository.
```

    ```shell
    git remote add origin https://gitlab.com/usernamekamu/project-name.git
    git push -u origin master
    ```

12. Please check **Pipelines** in GitLab or Actions on GitHub. If
    steps are followed correctly, then your Django project will succeed

>     deployed to Heroku.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. Please check **Pipelines** on GitLab or Actions on GitHub. If the
    steps are followed correctly, then your Django project will be
    successfully deployed to Heroku.
```

    > Example: https://django-template-heroku.herokuapp.com

13. Congratulations! Now, you just need to focus on developing your web project
    no need to worry about deployment problems. To develop
    your web project, please install *package-package* in advance

>     required with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
13. Congratulations! Now, you just need to focus on developing your web project
    without having to worry about deployment problems. Before developing your web
    project, please install the required packages with the following command.
```

    ```shell
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

14. Continue by creating a local database and collecting

>     *static* files become one directory with the following commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. Continue by creating a local database and collecting
    *static* files into a single directory with the following commands.
```

    ```shell
    python manage.py migrate
    python manage.py collectstatic
    ```
15. If you have, you can run your web server locally by

>     the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. After that, you can run your web server locally with the
    following command.
```

    ```shell
    python manage.py runserver
    ```

16. From here, you just have to edit your Django project files
    as needed. Then, don't forget to use the 'git add' command,
    'git commit', and 'git push' to upload your changes to GitLab/GitHub
    (which will then be deployed to Heroku). Don't forget to make

>     migrations if you change the file 'models.py'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. From here, you just need to edit your Django project files as necessary.
    Then, don't forget to use the `git add`, `git commit`, and `git push` commands
    to upload your changes to GitLab/GitHub (which will then be deployed to Heroku).
    Don't forget to make migration files if you change the `models.py` file.
```

    ```shell
    python manage.py makemigrations
    ```

    The result of migrations are included in the
    repository (<sup><sub> you change the template configuration so that

>     it is not necessary... but why?)</sub></sup>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The generated migration files should be committed into the repository
    (<sup><sub>unless you change the template configuration so that
    it's not necessary... but why?)</sub></sup>.
```

> 17. To run the unit test, you can use the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
17. To run the unit tests, you can use the following command.
```

    ```shell
    python manage.py test --exclude-tag=functional
    ```

## Advanced

After successfully creating a new Django project with this template, there is a
highly recommended advanced steps to work on in order to

> ease of developing your web in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully creating a new Django project with this template, there are some
highly recommended additional steps you can do in order to ease your web development
in the future.
```

> 1. Add a new Django *super user* to your existing app in Heroku.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add a new Django super user to your Heroku app.
```

  The database used on your local computer is "different" than the one
  used in Heroku. By default, you use the SQLite database
  stored in the file 'db.sqlite3', while Heroku uses the base

>   PostgreSQL data hosted in the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The database used on your local computer is **different** to the one that's
  used on Heroku. By default, you use the SQLite database stored in the `db.sqlite3` file,
  while Heroku uses the PostgreSQL database hosted in the cloud.
```

  To be able to access your existing Django administration site
  in Heroku, open the Heroku Dashboard. Then, click your app and click the
  **More > Run console** in the top right corner. Type 'bash' in the dialog
  *pop-ups* appear. If you have, enter the command

>   'python manage.py createsuperuser' and follow the instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To be able to access your existing Django administration site on Heroku, open the
  Heroku Dashboard. Then, click on your app and click the **More > Run console**
  option in the top right corner. Type `bash` in the *pop-up* dialog that appears.
  Then, enter the command `python manage.py createsuperuser` and follow the
  instructions.
```

  > Psst, inside the 'bash', you can browse your Django projects like
  From the cmd/terminal, that's it! That is, you can also call other commands
  > such as 'python manage.py migrate' or even Linux commands

>   > *shell*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > Psst, inside `bash`, you can browse your Django projects just like from the cmd/terminal!
  > That means, you can also use other commands such as `python manage.py migrate` or
  > even Linux shell commands.
```

2. Download *chromedriver* (or any other *webdriver* you want) to
   computer in order to run functional tests locally.

>    **This will be very useful for one of the stories.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Download chromedriver (or any other webdriver you want) to your computer in order
   to run functional tests locally. **This will be very useful for one of the stories.**
```

  on Windows:
  Download [ChromeDriver][chromedriver] ('chromedriver_win32.zip') for version
  The Chrome you're using. Then, extract the '.zip' file and place the

>   'chromedriver.exe' in this directory (equivalent to 'manage.py').

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  On Windows:
  Download [ChromeDriver][chromedriver] ('chromedriver_win32.zip') for the Chrome version
  that you use. Then, extract the `.zip` file and place the `chromedriver.exe` in this directory
  (same level as `manage.py`).
```

  On Linux:
  Some Linux distributions have *package* specific to ChromeDriver, or
  some have also included it in the chromium package (e.g.
  Arch Linux). If there is no suitable package, you can download it
  'chromedriver_linux64.zip' via the link above, then 'unzip' and

>   put 'chromedriver' into one of the existing directories in '$PATH'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  On Linux:
  Some Linux distributions have their own ChromeDriver packages, or some have also
  included it in the chromium package (e.g. Arch Linux). If there is no suitable package,
  you can download `chromedriver_linux64.zip` from the link above, then `unzip` and
  put `chromedriver` into one of the existing directories in `$PATH`.
```

  on macOS:
  Install 'chromedriver' with [Homebrew][homebrew]
  ('brew cask install chromedriver' in Terminal). Please install Homebrew
  first if you haven't already. I don't have a device with macOS, so
  please find a solution if any obstacles arise ;)

>   To run *functional test* only, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  On macOS:
  Install `chromedriver` with [Homebrew][homebrew] (`brew cask install chromedriver` on the Terminal).
  Please install Homebrew first if you haven't already. I don't have a macOS device, so please find a
  solution on your own if there's any problem ;)

  To run the *functional tests* only, use the following command:
```

  shell
  python manage.py test --tag=functional
  ```

  > Note: if you want to use another webdriver, please customize the file
  > 'tests.py' and install it for the webdriver.
  > If you want to see the functional test process on your computer, turn it off
  > 'headless' option on 'tests.py'. However, don't forget to turn it on
  > return because the option is required by GitLab CI/GitHub Actions.
  > Make sure you've run the 'collectstatic' command before

>   > run a functional test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > Note: if you want to use a different webdriver, please customize the `tests.py` file
  > and install the webdriver accordingly. If you want to see the functional tests in action
  > on your computer, turn off the `headless` option in `tests.py`. However, don't forget to
  > turn it back on because the option is required by GitLab CI/GitHub Actions.
  > Make sure you've run the `collectstatic` command before running the functional tests.
```

  > Windows user-specific notes: when you run
  > *functional test*, may appear *error* such as
  ' ConnectionResetError: [WinError 10054] An existing connection was forcibly
  > closed by the remote host'. As long as the test stays running until it is complete,
  Just ignore the problem. This is indeed [*bug*][ticket-21227] which has not been

>   > fixed for Django in Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > Note for Windows users: when you run functional tests, an error such as
  > `ConnectionResetError: [WinError 10054] An existing connection was forcibly
  > closed by the remote host` may appear. As long as the tests finish successfully,
  > just ignore the error. This is a [bug][ticket-21227] which has not been fixed for
  > Django on Windows.
```

3. Set the configuration of *code coverage* in GitLab.

  *Code coverage* is one of the metrics useful for measuring
  how much of your code is tested. GitLab has features for
  capture the code coverage of a job in Pipelines. To
  settings , CI / CD > General pipelines **. On
  **Test coverage parsing** section, fill in the following regular expressions:
  '^TOTAL.*s+(d+%)$' (what is this for?), and save it.

  Later, in the Coverage report section will appear the badge
  coverage of your project. *Badge* you can enter into the
  'README.md' as it is in this file.

  To run tests with coverage on your local computer,

>   use the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set the code coverage configuration on GitLab.

  Code coverage is a useful metric for measuring how much of your code is covered by tests.
  GitLab has features for capturing code coverage from a job log in the Pipelines. To set it up,
  go to **CI/CD > General pipelines**. In the **Test coverage parsing** section, fill in the
  following regular expressions: `^TOTAL.*s+(d+%)$` (what is this for?), and save it.

  Later, in the **Coverage report** section there will be a coverage badge of your project.
  You can add this badge into the `README.md` file just like this one.

  To run the tests with coverage on your local computer, use the following command.
```

  shell
  coverage run --include="./*" --omit="venv/*,manage.py,project_name/*" manage.py test

>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```shell
   coverage run --include="./*" --omit="venv/*,manage.py,project_name/*" manage.py test
   ```
```

  > Note: This command will run *unit test* and *functional test*
  > at once, so make sure you've run the 'collectstatic' command

>   > before running the test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > Note: this command runs both unit tests and functional tests at once,
  > so make sure you've run the `collectstatic` command before running the tests.
```

## Tips for development

1. From now on, get used to reloading your browser with
   <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>R</kbd> (some *browsers* can also
   with <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F5</kbd>), not just
   <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>R</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>. Otherwise, when you
   develop the web locally, you may often find cases in
   where the *static* file that appears in the browser does not change after you
   modify it. This occurs because the browser caches the file
   *static* you to be accessible faster. By pressing the
   <kbd>Shift</kbd>, the browser will bypass the static file that you have

>    cached....bypass-cache].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From now on, get used to reloading your browser with
   <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>R</kbd> (you can also use
   <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F5</kbd> on some browsers), not just
   <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>R</kbd> or <kbd>F5</kbd>. Otherwise, when you
   develop the web locally, you may often find that the static files that are loaded
   on your browser do not change after you modify it. This happens because the
   browser caches the static files for faster access. By pressing <kbd>Shift</kbd>,
   the browser will [bypass the cached static files]bypass-cache].
```

2. Get used to writing quality tests for your web projects, especially
   for logic such as those in the views section. Creating a test will
   make it easier for you to find bugs in your program early. Besides
   tests can also prevent you from creating new bugs when you

>    develop your web project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Get used to writing quality tests for your web projects, especially
   for the logic parts such as those in the views layer. Writing tests will
   make it easier for you to find bugs in your program early on. Besides,
   tests can also prevent you from creating new bugs when you
   develop your web project.
```

3. *Code coverage* 100% does not guarantee your project is bug-free. However, it has
   tests that test your project as a whole will certainly be very
   Useful. Start writing tests every time you create functionality

>    code coverage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. 100% code coverage does not mean your project is bug-free. However, having
    tests that assess your project as a whole will certainly be very useful. Start writing
    tests every time you create a new functionality to maintain your code coverage.
```

4. This template intentionally does not include configurations for *linting* such as
   use flake8 or pylint. It is for
   *warning* appears on GitHub Actions or GitLab CI if the code is
   you do not comply with the rules applied by the linter. If you
   do not want to bother setting your code to be neat, please try
   ['black'] [black] and ['isort'][isort]. It would be great if you too
   create a configuration to run the *linter* in GitHub Actions

>    or GitLab CI for the project you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. This template intentionally does not include linting configurations such as using
   [`flake8`][flake8] or [`pylint`][pylint]. This is done to avoid warnings from appearing
   on your GitHub Actions or GitLab CI if your code does not comply with the rules
   applied by the linter. If you don't want to be bothered with code style, I suggest
   using [`black`] [black] and [`isort`][isort]. It's a good idea to create a configuration to
   run the linters on GitHub Actions or GitLab CI for your project.
```

## What kind of magic is this?

The 'django-admin' tool provides the ['--template'][template] option for commands
A 'startproject' that accepts addresses to the template file of a Django project.
The address can be the location of the file on the local computer or the URL for the
download an archive file. GitLab/GitHub provides the option to download

> repository as archive '.zip'... the rest please understand for yourself :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `django-admin` tool provides the [`--template`][template] option for the `startproject`
command that accepts a path to a template of a Django project. The path can be the location
of a local file/directory or the URL for an archive file. GitLab/GitHub provides the option to
download repositories as `.zip` archives... you can figure out the rest :)
```

This template will be rendered with variables that can be submitted when
run 'startproject'. How it works is similar to Django *templates* and

> *context variables* that can be inserted into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template will then be rendered with variables that can be applied when running
the `startproject` command. It works similarly to Django templates and context variables
that can be rendered into it.
```

Please make this template as a learning resource as much as possible**.
This template can indeed make it easier for you to create Django projects that are ready
deployed without the need to do many configurations. However, it would be very
useful to you if you understand how the configuration works in the

> this template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please use this template as a **learning resource as much as possible**. It is true that
this template can make it easier for you to create Django projects that are ready to be
deployed without having to deal with many configurations. However, it would be very
beneficial for you if you understand how the configurations work in this template.
```

## Contribute

If you would like to contribute to this template, please create an issue or submit a
*pull request* to the repository for this template at [**GitHub**][repo-gh].
This repository is also mirrored to [GitLab][repo-gl] for purposes

> Demonstration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this template, please create an issue or submit a
pull request to the repository for this template at [**GitHub**][repo-gh]. This
repository is also mirrored to [GitLab][repo-gl] for demonstration purposes.
```

## License

This template is distributed with [The Unlicense][license]. Project
created with this template is welcome to be distributed with

> different terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template is distributed under [The Unlicense][license] license. Projects
generated with this template can be distributed under different licenses.
```
